Page of Module struct (#179)
substrate-developer-hub/substrate-developer-hub.github.io: docs/runtime/types/module-struct.md

```rust
/// The module's configuration trait.
pub trait Trait: system::Trait {
    /// The overarching event type.
    type Event: From<Event<Self>> + Into<<Self as system::Trait>::Event>;
}
    
pub struct Module<T: Trait>;
```

## Functions and Implementations

### Dispatchable Functions

Dispatchable functions are written by runtime developers and maintain the logic around how to manipulate the blockchain state. Here we only have one function named `do_something` in template runtime module, the expanded code is nearly same with original code except the added `origin` type signature.

```rust
impl<T: Trait> Module<T> {
    pub fn do_something(origin: T::Origin, something: u32) -> Result {
        let who = ensure_signed(origin)?;
        <Something<T>>::put(something);
        Self::deposit_event(RawEvent::SomethingStored(something, who));
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

`Module` struct implements the `Callable` trait in `srml-support` by specifying the associate type to be the module's `Call` enum. Above dispatchable functions will be exposed through this enum, go to its own page for more details about [`Call` Enum](runtime/types/call-enum.md).

```rust

> impl<T: Trait> ::srml_support::dispatch::Callable for Module<T> {

Reviewer: You don't need these long paths. Just use the trait name.

        <system::Module<T>>::deposit_event(<T as Trait>::from(event).into());
    }
}
```

Refer to [Event Enum](runtime/types/event-enum.md) for more knowledge around events in Substrate.

### Utilities for Block Execution

There are three reserved functions that can be defined in runtime modules:

1. `on_initialize` function lets you express what should happen for your module when the block is beginning (right before the first extrinsic is applied).
2. `on_finalize` function lets you express what should happen for your module when the block is ending.
3. `offchain_worker` function allows you to perform long-running tasks that make validators generate extrinsics with the results of those long-running computations.

The `decl_module!` macro will generate default implementations if you didn't provide your own:

```rust
impl<T: Trait> ::srml_support::runtime_primitives::traits::OnInitialize<T::BlockNumber>
    for Module<T>
{}

impl<T: Trait> ::srml_support::runtime_primitives::traits::OnFinalize<T::BlockNumber>
    for Module<T>
{}

impl<T: Trait> ::srml_support::runtime_primitives::traits::OffchainWorker<T::BlockNumber>
    for Module<T>
{}
```

## Tuple of All The Modules

> Your `Module` struct then comes along with other used SRML modules to form a tuple called `AllModules` which will be tied to the `Executive` struct in `srml-executive`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `Module` struct then comes along with other used SRML modules to form a tuple called `AllModules` which will be passed to the Executive module, handling dispatch to the various modules.
```

```rust
pub type System = system::Module<Runtime>;
pub type Timestamp = timestamp::Module<Runtime>;
pub type Consensus = consensus::Module<Runtime>;
pub type Aura = aura::Module<Runtime>;
pub type Indices = indices::Module<Runtime>;
pub type Balances = balances::Module<Runtime>;
pub type Sudo = sudo::Module<Runtime>;
pub type TemplateModule = template::Module<Runtime>;

type AllModules = (
    Timestamp,
    Consensus,
    Aura,
    Indices,
    Balances,
    Sudo,
    TemplateModule,
);

/// Executive: handles dispatch to the various modules.
pub type Executive = executive::Executive<Runtime, Block, Context, Balances, AllModules>;
```

`Executive` struct provides implementation to handle block execution, our tuple will be used during applying extrinsics. Let me stop here and leave remaining mystery for you to explore.

## Metadata of Your Module

`Module` struct provides query functions for metadata of module's dispatchable functions and storage, the metadata for `Event` enum is actually in its own implementation. The following json shows the metadata of our template runtime module. Go to [this page](TODO) for more details around Substrate runtime metadata.

> ```json

Reviewer: The Metadata is not Json. We should make this clear.

Author: I changed the expression to emphasize what we show is in JSON format. But still don't touch metadata details. The details will be put in another [page](https://github.com/substrate-developer-hub/substrate-developer-hub.github.io/pull/163)

When developing runtime in Substrate, you need to declare a `Module` struct for your runtime module. This `Module` struct wraps a set of useful functions and implementations, either written by you or generated by the macros in Substrate. 

There are a few code snippets in following sections to show parts of `Module` struct implementations. If you are interested in what's fully expanded code look like for your module, try using [cargo-expand](https://github.com/dtolnay/cargo-expand) by following its instructions.

## The Definition of  Module Struct

Here is template runtime module provided by the node-template, it contains following code along with `decl_module!` macro:

```rust
decl_module! {
    /// The module declaration.
    pub struct Module<T: Trait> for enum Call where origin: T::Origin {
        // Initializing events
        fn deposit_event<T>() = default;
        
        // Just a dummy entry point.
        pub fn do_something(origin, something: u32) -> Result {
            let who = ensure_signed(origin)?; 
            <Something<T>>::put(something);
            Self::deposit_event(RawEvent::SomethingStored(something, who));
            Ok(())
        }
    }
}
```

> Let's look at the code that shows the definition of `Module` struct after expanded. It has a type parameter `T` which bounds to the module's configuration `Trait`. [PhantomData](https://doc.rust-lang.org/beta/std/marker/struct.PhantomData.html) is used to indicate what type of data our `Module` struct is "tied" to, but not found in our struct.

Reviewer 2: I would omit the `PhantomData` stuff in your explanation and your example below. It is an implementation detail, not necessarily what you want to teach them.

Author: Based on the discussion, the function is not being used and provide no value for now, remove it in this doc.

Author: Leave the PhantomData in the code example makes sure our code is syntax correct. A bit description on `PhantomData` could reduce confusion at first place. The redundancy seems valuable from this perspective.

Reviewer 2: But this phantom data description should not be found in the middle of this random page...

I dont think correct code syntax is what we are looking for here. We want to explain to them the general structures being made, not the specific nitty gritty details

Author: Fair point, the `PhantomData` removed.

```rust
#[cfg(feature = "std")]
#[structural_match]

> #[rustc_copy_clone_marker]

Reviewer 2: Probably remove these `#[...]` items too

pub struct Module<T: Trait>(::std::marker::PhantomData<(T)>);
```

> *Notes:*
>

> > * The attribute `#[cfg(feature = "std")]` tells the Rust compiler to only compile our struct when using along with the Rust standard library.

Reviewer 2: If you remove it above, you can remove it here too.

> * `rustc_copy_clone_marker` indicates the `Module` struct is able to be either copied or cloned.

## Functions and Implementations

### Dispatchable Functions

Dispatchable functions are written by runtime developers and maintain the logic around how to manipulate the blockchain state. Here we only have one function named `do_something` in template runtime module, the expanded code is nearly same with original code except the added `origin` type signature.

```rust
impl<T: Trait> Module<T> {
    pub fn do_something(origin: T::Origin, something: u32) -> Result {
        let who = ensure_signed(origin)?;
        <Something<T>>::put(something);
        Self::deposit_event(RawEvent::SomethingStored(something, who));
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

`Module` struct implements the `Callable` trait in `srml-support` by specifying the associate type to be the module's `Call` enum. Above dispatchable functions will be exposed through this enum, go to its own page for more details about [`Call` enum]((runtime/types/call-enum.md)).

```rust
impl<T: Trait> ::srml_support::dispatch::Callable for Module<T> {
    type Call = Call<T>;
}
```

> There is also a `dispatch` function that redirect the request to the module's `Call` enum:

Reviewer 2: This is not so clear, but I think the meat of what we want to teach the user.

If you can expand on this, and the example below, that would be good.

Author: Great pickup, I found this function in implementation, but not found where is using it. I will ask other people and loop the result back here.

```rust
impl<T: Trait> Module<T> {
    #[doc(hidden)]
    pub fn dispatch<D: ::srml_support::dispatch::Dispatchable<Trait=T>>(
        d: D,
        origin: D::Origin,
    ) -> ::srml_support::dispatch::Result {
        d.dispatch(origin)
    }
}
```

> ### Implementations for Storage

Reviewer 2: Let's not go into this. There should be a separate page about the storage type that is generated.

Author: * Already link details around Store in its own page, `TODO` as a mark since it does not exist yet.
* There is overlap between `Module` struct and `Event` enum, `Store` trait, put a section to document the relationship / overlap could be helpful. `Module` struct page seems a good place to do such thing.

The input codes for the `decl_storage!` procedure macro in template module are:

```rust
/// This module's storage items.
decl_storage! {
    trait Store for Module<T: Trait> as TemplateModule {
        // Just a dummy storage item. 
        // Here we are declaring a StorageValue, `Something` as a Option<u32>
        // `get(something)` is the default getter which returns either the stored `u32` or `None` if nothing stored
        Something get(something): Option<u32>;
    }
}
```

After expanded, we'll see a `Store` implementation for `Module` struct. The `Store` trait here is an abstract layer that places all the associate types for module's available storage items. `Module` struct implements this trait by specifying the concrete types like `Something<T>` struct.

```rust
trait Store {
    type Something;
}

struct Something<T: Trait>(
    self::sr_api_hidden_includes_decl_storage::hidden_include::storage::generator::PhantomData<
        (T),
    >,
);

> impl<T: Trait> Store for Module<T> {

Reviewer 2: You should simply reference that the Module type has multple implementations, like Store, and if they want to learn more about how that implementation is generated, they can look at the Storage type.

This applies to other impl too

Author: I keep the sub-sections, since it makes the structure a bit clear.

    type Something = Something<T>;
}
```

The `Module` struct also implements the default getter functions for storage items and the query for storage metadata. Go to [Metadata of Your Module](#metadata-of-your-module) section to give a glimpse at details. 

> ### Deposit Event in Module

Reviewer 2: Same comment about Storage applies here

Remember the `deposit_event` function defined in the `decl_module!` macro? It will call the `deposit_event` function in `srml-system` runtime module to deposit an event into block's event record.

```rust
impl<T: Trait> Module<T> {
    fn deposit_event(event: Event<T>) {
        <system::Module<T>>::deposit_event(<T as Trait>::from(event).into());
    }
}
```

Refer to [Event Enum](runtime/types/event-enum.md) for more knowledge around events in Substrate.

### Utilities for Block Execution

> There is three privileged functions that can be define in runtime modules:

Reviewer 2: Don't use the word "privileged" here. In Substrate, "privileged functions" are those which require ROOT origin.

I would say there are 3 "reserved" functions or "functions with reserved names"
